Digestion is the process of breaking food down
so that nutrients can be absorbed by cells.
In your stomach,
food is churned and mixed with acid and enzymes.
It is then pushed into the first part of the small intestine,
where most digestion and absorption takes place.
To aid absorption,
it is mixed with bile,
which is produced by the liver
and discharged from the gallbladder through ducts.
Digested food molecules
pass into blood vessels in the walls of the intestine
and are carried up through the portal vein
into the liver for further processing and storage.
The liver is usually a rich, red color,
but excess lipids stored in its cells
can change it to a whitish color.
This is known as fatty liver disease.
It is closely associated with obesity,
particularly central obesity
involving the omentum,
a fatty pad that hangs down from the stomach.
Eating too much fat
can cause it to push out,
producing a large waist line.
In some people, eating certain foods can
irritate the walls of the small intestine
and disrupt regular movement,
resulting in altered bowel habits,
or irritable bowel.
Almost all nutrients have been absorbed by the time
digested food leaves the small intestine
and enters the colon,
where water and salt are extracted
leaving solid wastes for elimination.